Today I want to analyze two cases
that we have already seen before, and
also have seen them on several occasions,
such as the case of Ikea and the
case of Mercadona.
But now that we know, in addition
to the value curve, we know the Rize
matrix, I want to analyze them
using the Rize matrix because
you’ll see how this tool allows
us to visualize very well what
are the innovations in the
value proposal.
How are strategic movements?
It is a very practical tool
that I love.
Let’s start with IKEA.
The first thing we have to do is
to analyze what is the value curve
of the furniture sector, its
competitors.
What are the main factors?
Well, as the price is clear, the quality
of the furniture, the design
of the furniture, the proximity,
the proximity, the convenience.
Now keep in mind that we are
talking about a retail sector
and this is always a key factor,
being close to consumers.
And also in this case, keep
in mind that the investment is
very high because being close
to, being in the urban centers
brings a very high square
meter rental.
This is a very important factor
that also involves a lot of
investment.
The post-sales service and the variety
of products.
By the variety of products I mean
that there are retailers that
offer furniture of all kinds
and others focus on for example
concrete products such as kitchen,
lounges.
We will draw the value curves
in the sector.
We have on the one hand
the competitors who offer
a more premium product in which
the value curve is up and
the crazy ones is down.
The only point to highlight is
that the variety of crazy ones
is usually a little larger because
it is usually a little larger,
more remote and with more
product variety.
And now what we’re going to do
is let’s use the RICE matrix
to understand what IKEA has
done to understand its success.
And we start with the factors that
IKEA has reduced far below the
rest of the industry and that has
obviously allowed it to reduce
costs.
What factor has decreased?
The proximity or convenience
has been reduced.
If you think, Ikea stores
are outside of the
big cities when traditional
old furniture stores
were in the cities.
This is a factor that lowers
the cost a lot because the square
meter is much cheaper outside
the city.
I think Ikea would have such
an attractive proposal that
customers would move
to their stores.
One factor that has eliminated IKEA
that we have already discussed
other times and that involves or implies
a huge reduction in cost is the
fact that you mount the furniture.
This has a significant impact on
logistics and so on.
All this allows you to significantly
reduce the price compared to your competitors.
But IKEA is not only a low cost
as we saw but it has also managed
to increase a number of factors
that allow it to offer
more value.
One of them is immediate.
You may not have thought about it,
but if you want to buy furniture
at IKEA when you go to IKEA, buy
the furniture, take it home and
have it at home that same day.
If you are planning to build them, you already
have the furniture.
It is all very immediately.
Traditionally, buying furniture
was not so, it was a longer
process.
The after-sales service of IKEA is exceptional.
This is a value that has increased
compared to the rest.
You have 365 days to return the
furniture even if you have
used it.
The ease of buying.
It is designed to make it easy
to buy.
You have the catalogs, guides, etc.
The facility of resale is a factor
that had never been taken into
account so far.
But the reality is that there are
people who furnish tourist
apartments and other or temporary, students.
And they know that IKEA furniture
has a much easier resale than the
rest of the furniture.
Because they are models that are even
known in the market with the name
of the model.
Another factor is that you can equip
your entire home.
This is a great advantage because it provides
a lot of comfort.
Not just furniture, but equipment.
You can buy absolutely everything
you need.
A home, go to IKEA, spend a few
hours, come back and have your home
equipped.
These are factors that IKEA
has increased compared to the rest.
The value curve we have on
the screen is very different.
We have on the one hand a lower
price than premium and a bit
higher than low cost pures.
The quality is much higher than the
low cost.
The design is at the level of premium
brands.
They have come down very much, as we see
in the curve, the proximity.
And then on a number of factors that
would be the focus of differentiation.
The level is much higher.
The ease of buying, the speed,
that you can furnish your entire
home, the after-sales service, etc.
By looking at the value curve,
we understand what the difference between
the value proposition of IKEA
and the rest of its competitors is.
And the RIC matrix has helped us understand
how they did it.
We will analyze the Mercadona value
curve.
Mercadona is a case that we have talked
about many times and we will talk
about many times because there
are many things to learn from.
The first thing we will do is
to analyze the value curve
of the food sector.
What are the factors?
Let us think.
The price and quality of
the products are obvious.
The variety of products, that in
a supermarket or hypermarket
you can have different
products.
In the supermarkets you have less variety,
in the supermarkets you have
more variety, you have everything.
The variety of brands, you
can choose from many brands.
The quality of the white mark.
Parking, for example, the
comfort that you can get and park.
Have good offers.
The room should be clean, have
a good atmosphere, etc.
and personal service.
I would say that they are
the main factors around
which the food distribution
industry competes.
And that are the factors that
make customers decent for one
or the other.
I will show you how the Mercadona
value curve varies from
a competitive supermarket.
We’ll think of a supermarket of
about 300-500 square meters.
We are not talking about
a hypermarket, but a supermarket
that is its direct competitor.
Let us start with the factors that
Mercadona has reduced or eliminated
with the aim of reducing
the cost.
It is clear that Mercadona, in addition,
was a strategy that was very commented
at the time, but that has been
successful.
It has greatly reduced the variety
of brands in each category.
That is, if you want to buy yogurt,
instead of having X brands, because
there are many fewer.
This allows Mercadona to
reduce costs because it manages
its suppliers better.
In addition, we would almost say that
you have eliminated one factor that
you have eliminated are the offers, the promotions.
This also has an impact on the
internal cost because all management
is simpler than operations.
Please note that you do not have
to make any brochures or change
prices.
Accounting is easier.
Thus, these two factors allow you
to, having reduced the variety of
brands and reducing or eliminating
promotions, allow you to
lower the price relative
to your competitors.
A very clear consequence.
And now we will look at the factors
that Mercadona has increased and
which allow it, obviously, to
provide a differential value.
One of them is the variety of products.
The variety of Mercadona products
is much superior to that of
a similar size supermarket.
It can be comparable to what
you can find in a supermarket.
In locations that are much larger,
which obviously have more variation.
It also improves the quality
of its brand.
There are also additional
services, such as
parking.
Almost all the markets have parking,
and they are very good.
They are clean, clean, etc.
And very easy to access.
And with regard to the cleaning
and environment of the oral weight,
we can say that it has increased a little
the investment it makes in these factors
and the value perceived by the
public.
For example, I think that Mercadona
employees’ salaries are
above the market average.
As we have seen, there has been
an increase in investment
and customer perception.
As we can see, Mercadona’s value curve
is very different from that of
the rest of its competitors.
And here, from this perspective,
we can explain the reason why it
has been so successful.
With that growth so exaggerated
and also have tens of thousands
of customers who are absolutely
loyal to the brand.